>> Mike North: We're going to
go through the solution here,
to a building our buttons BEM style.
So switching over to my code here.
Let me just get rid of the last
solution.
>> Mike North: That
was an interesting literary strat there.
>> Mike North: All right, killall -9 node.
So if you get an error that a ports
already running, I saw a couple of people
with that it could be that one of the
exercises is running in the background.
And here we're gonna
run an exercise called
Bem.
>> Mike North: So
what we have are basically the buttons.
They're sort of structured correctly,
they're just not styled the way we want
them to be styled yet.
>> Mike North: So we'll open up our
project here.
>> Mike North: My editor's
throwing some curve balls to me today.
>> Mike North: Here we go,
BEM, and here's our Sass, and
now we can get rid of our sidebar here.
So I do actually wanna see one thing.
>> Mike North: Let's look at our HTML.
So I'd like to draw attention
to what's going on here.
This is our component and
what we have is the button has
a modifier on it called
button --mode-primary, right?
This is the equivalent of our
button-primary thing that we've been using
in several exercises today, and
inside, we've got an element and
that is this BTN underscore price.
Right, sorry BTN double underscore price.
This is the convention for
element that we have two underscores
between the block and
sort of the name of this element.
So let's get started here.
We've already got some basic styling
here and part of the instructions
involved following the color
schemes from Exercise 1.
So let's get started.
So we're gonna do btn--primary, and this,
sorry it's not btn--primary,
it's btn-mode-primary.
You'll see modifiers
often come in the form of
collections of modifiers that all
are grouped by a certain theme,
like button size big, or
size medium, or size small.
And often times, you'll see families
grouped together in this way.
Families of modifiers.
>> Mike North: And here we'll go button
mode secondary.
>> Mike North: And
here we're gonna have background of c,
I think it's c49 or
c69, let me just look at
Exercise 1 here real quick,
which was nesting.
>> Mike North: c46,
close.
>> Mike North: So
that should make the primary button happy.
I see that the button primary also
needs to have a good heading value,
padding left is 10 pixel and
14 we said instead, so
we can just fix that.
>> Mike North: What we've
got now,
>> Mike North: Is we're looking for
changes in colors.
So now, we've got text color popping up as
the next failing task the primary button
should have a text color of white.
>> Mike North: And
I know this one is gonna want black.
the background should be the same as what
we used in exercise one so
just grab it from here.
>> Mike North: Okay, and now opacity,
it looks like when the button is disabled,
we need the opacity to
be 0.5.
>> Mike North: And
then finally, we have a test
that relates to the element,
the price that is inside our button.
So I'll define a selector for that.
Just a reminder that we
can just use __price,
here take advantage of the fact that
the .btn comes along for the ride.
It is important to note that elements
will almost always begin like this.
Modifiers will often begin with like a& so
this will have a padding three pixels,
I think it was one pixel and
I have that flipped.
All right, now, finally button price
should have a background color
of,
>> Mike North: 080.
But let's see and 08 was found instead.
This is really interesting because
I have what it's looking for.
I think that some of the color
can version stuffs in my test is
>> Audience 1: What is words looking for?
>> Mike North: 0008-
>> Audience 2: And three zeros.
>> Mike North: 000.
>> Mike North: Interesting.
And now, finally, we've got like when our
buttons disabled we want the price to no
longer be green, right?
We want that to fade out as well.
So important to know that
we're gonna have to break,
we're gonna have to express some
style about our element in here.
The reason I gave you this
little exercise is so
that you could discover that we can't
simply put our ampersand in here again.
That would refer to disabled,
like we're already another selector deep,
and you can't just double down on,
you can use that ampersand once
your another scope down the line.
So here we would have
to deal btn_price and
then the background would be
again the same one I'm guessing.
>> Mike North: No, it's aaa, there we go,
and all tests are passing so
we could not do this I believe.
Yep, see it doe not apply.
>> Mike North: In fact,
I'm intrerested to see what CSS
this is gonna generate for us.
What is that gonna look like.
Yeah, see not good.
Not good.
[LAUGH] So,
>> Mike North: It's
one of the limitations.
We don't quite have enough tools to
make that a really elegant thing,
but here you go.
This is a totally valid BEM component.
Low on the complexity side but
hopefully, you start to see
some of the best practices you
already kind of align with.
There's the formalized
in this methodology.
>> Audience 3: You're asking why
did you use BTN.
--mode primary instead
of &-- mode primary?
>> Mike North: Here &-- mode primary like
this.
Good question.
So let me fire up the exercise again.
So you'd find that this would work.
You'd find that this would work.
Here's the difference and
the out part of the CSS.
If we look up here, so I've actually
got two different ways of doing it.
This is perfect.
I've got one secondary.
It's using the wave that I
initially solved the problem.
I've set primary equal to the way
the person asking the question online.
Express it and
the resultant CSS looks like this.
So you see what I've done is I've
popped out of the scope of BTN
now my modifier is potentially
floating around and
it's applying its styles even outside
the context of the block element.
And although in this particular
case it couldn't cause trouble.
This is less specifically scoped
than the rule should probably be.
If we were to kind of adhere to
the best practices that would,
it'll protect us from tripping over
our shoelaces as our app scales.
Good question though.
I wish there was an elegant
way of expressing modifiers
that matches how nice these
end up looking for elements.
But I would sooner write these out
than like have those things floating
around in the open outside
the context of the BTM class.